README.md, before:

# kangae (考え, idea or thought)

[kangae][1] is a lightweight microblog theme for [zola][2].

<details>
  <summary>kangae screenshots on desktop and mobile</summary>

  ![kangae screenshot light mode on desktop](static/images/kangae-desktop-light.webp)
  ![kangae screenshot dark mode on desktop](static/images/kangae-desktop-dark.webp)
  ![kangae screenshot light mode on mobile](static/images/kangae-mobile-light.webp)
  ![kangae screenshot dark mode on mobile](static/images/kangae-mobile-dark.webp)
</details>

I've created kangae from scratch and it is not based on any other theme. However, I was inspired to
create kangae after I came across [Wolfgang Müller's microblog][3]. Thanks Wolf!

kangae is licensed under the [NCSA license][5], which is quite similar to the BSD-3-Clause license.
Unlike BSD-3-Clause, NCSA also covers documentation of a project.

# Showcase

Here's a list of websites using the kangae theme

- [ayushnix microblog][4]

If you want to mention your website in this section, please raise a pull request.

# Installation

Before using this theme, [install zola][6]. After you've installed zola,

```
$ zola init microblog
> What is the URL of your site? (https://example.com):
> Do you want to enable Sass compilation? [Y/n]:
> Do you want to enable syntax highlighting? [y/N]:
> Do you want to build a search index of the content? [y/N]:
$ cd microblog/
```

kangae doesn't use Sass or syntax highlighting so if you don't want to use custom Sass code or
enable syntax highlighting, answer the 2nd and 3rd question with a 'no'. kangae also doesn't use any
JavaScript library to search content. If you don't intend to install a JavaScript library to enable
search on your microblog, answer 'no' to the last question as well.

If you intend to publish your microblog on a forge like GitHub, initialize an empty git repository
using

```
$ git init
$ git commit --allow-empty -m 'initial empty root commit'
```

If you don't want to make an empty commit, add and commit a README or a LICENSE file instead.

At this point, you can install kangae using one of the following methods

## using `git subtree`

```
$ git subtree add -P themes/kangae/ --squash https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae.git master
```

## using `git submodule`

```
$ git submodule add https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae.git themes/kangae
```

## download kangae in themes directory

If you want to keep things simple and figure out version control later, you can

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae.git themes/kangae
```

# Configuration

To begin using kangae after installing it,

```
$ cp themes/kangae/config.toml ./
$ sed -i 's;# theme =\(.*\);theme =\1;' config.toml
```

The [`config.toml`][7] file of kangae has been documented carefully using TOML comments. If you have
any questions about configuring kangae which haven't been answered in the `config.toml` file itself,
please [raise an issue][8].

## Shortcodes

kangae provides several shortcodes that can be used to add content in an accessible manner

### kaomoji `(・_・)ノ`

If you want to use kaomoji in your posts, you can use insert them in an accessbile manner using

```
I don't know. {{ kaomoji(label="shrug kaomoji", text="╮( ˘_˘ )╭") }} I've never thought about it.
```

Providing a value for the `label` is optional but highly recommended. A short text should be
mentioned that explains what the kaomoji means to convey. The value of `text` should be the actual
emoticon itself.

This shortcode can also be used for any other ASCII emoticon that can fit in an inline paragraph.
This includes western emoticons such as `;)` and combination emoticons such as `<(^_^<)`.

## Optional Features

kangae includes some optional features that aren't enabled by default

- [style external links using a ↗ unicode symbol][11]

# Donate

If you found kangae helpful in creating your own microblog website, please consider supporting me by
buying me a coffee :coffee:

<a href='https://www.buymeacoffee.com/ayushnix' target='_blank' rel="noopener"><img src='https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-blue.png' alt='buy ayushnix a coffee at buymeacoffee.com' border='0' height='36'></a>
<a href='https://ko-fi.com/O5O64SQ4C' target='_blank' rel="noopener"><img src='https://cdn.ko-fi.com/cdn/kofi1.png?v=2' alt='buy ayusnix a coffee at ko-fi.com' border='0' height='36'></a>

If you're in India, you can also use UPI for donations. My UPI address is `ayushnix@ybl`.

# TODO (maybe?)

- (responsive) image shortcodes
- sample favicon, opengraph content, and web manifest
- run prettier on HTML and CSS before deployment
- pagination
- twitter and mastodon shortcodes
- add optional support for cross posting and commenting on mastodon without using JS
- add optional support for [giscus][9] and [loading mastodon comments][10]
- add shortcode for asciinema
- add shortcode for blockquote and citation

[1]: https://kangae.ayushnix.com/
[2]: https://www.getzola.org/
[3]: https://zunzuncito.oriole.systems/
[4]: https://microblog.ayushnix.com
[5]: LICENSE
[6]: https://www.getzola.org/documentation/getting-started/installation/
[7]: config.toml
[8]: https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae/issues/new
[9]: https://giscus.app/
[10]: https://carlschwan.eu/2020/12/29/adding-comments-to-your-static-blog-with-mastodon/
[11]: https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae/blob/master/static/css/style-external-links.css

Commit message:

Squashed 'themes/kangae/' changes from 6cc39f4..d9822b1
d9822b1 drop the idea to add favicon, ogdata, and manifest
65bddb5 feat: allow adding `rel` attribute to navbar links
78a2a56 docs: add misc notes about creating kangae

git-subtree-dir: themes/kangae
git-subtree-split: d9822b1f4ce4fef68c76d543667fef431ce92969

README.md, after:

# kangae (考え, idea or thought)

[kangae][1] is a lightweight microblog theme for [zola][2].

<details>
  <summary>kangae screenshots on desktop and mobile</summary>

  ![kangae screenshot light mode on desktop](static/images/kangae-desktop-light.webp)
  ![kangae screenshot dark mode on desktop](static/images/kangae-desktop-dark.webp)
  ![kangae screenshot light mode on mobile](static/images/kangae-mobile-light.webp)
  ![kangae screenshot dark mode on mobile](static/images/kangae-mobile-dark.webp)
</details>

I've created kangae from scratch and it is not based on any other theme. However, I was inspired to
create kangae after I came across [Wolfgang Müller's microblog][3]. Thanks Wolf!

kangae is licensed under the [NCSA license][5], which is quite similar to the BSD-3-Clause license.
Unlike BSD-3-Clause, NCSA also covers documentation of a project.

# Showcase

Here's a list of websites using the kangae theme

- [ayushnix microblog][4]

If you want to mention your website in this section, please raise a pull request.

# Installation

Before using this theme, [install zola][6]. After you've installed zola,

```
$ zola init microblog
> What is the URL of your site? (https://example.com):
> Do you want to enable Sass compilation? [Y/n]:
> Do you want to enable syntax highlighting? [y/N]:
> Do you want to build a search index of the content? [y/N]:
$ cd microblog/
```

kangae doesn't use Sass or syntax highlighting so if you don't want to use custom Sass code or
enable syntax highlighting, answer the 2nd and 3rd question with a 'no'. kangae also doesn't use any
JavaScript library to search content. If you don't intend to install a JavaScript library to enable
search on your microblog, answer 'no' to the last question as well.

If you intend to publish your microblog on a forge like GitHub, initialize an empty git repository
using

```
$ git init
$ git commit --allow-empty -m 'initial empty root commit'
```

If you don't want to make an empty commit, add and commit a README or a LICENSE file instead.

At this point, you can install kangae using one of the following methods

## using `git subtree`

```
$ git subtree add -P themes/kangae/ --squash https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae.git master
```

## using `git submodule`

```
$ git submodule add https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae.git themes/kangae
```

## download kangae in themes directory

If you want to keep things simple and figure out version control later, you can

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae.git themes/kangae
```

# Configuration

To begin using kangae after installing it,

```
$ cp themes/kangae/config.toml ./
$ sed -i 's;# theme =\(.*\);theme =\1;' config.toml
```

The [`config.toml`][7] file of kangae has been documented carefully using TOML comments. If you have
any questions about configuring kangae which haven't been answered in the `config.toml` file itself,
please [raise an issue][8].

## Shortcodes

kangae provides several shortcodes that can be used to add content in an accessible manner

### kaomoji `(・_・)ノ`

If you want to use kaomoji in your posts, you can use insert them in an accessbile manner using

```
I don't know. {{ kaomoji(label="shrug kaomoji", text="╮( ˘_˘ )╭") }} I've never thought about it.
```

Providing a value for the `label` is optional but highly recommended. A short text should be
mentioned that explains what the kaomoji means to convey. The value of `text` should be the actual
emoticon itself.

This shortcode can also be used for any other ASCII emoticon that can fit in an inline paragraph.
This includes western emoticons such as `;)` and combination emoticons such as `<(^_^<)`.

## Optional Features

kangae includes some optional features that aren't enabled by default

- [style external links using a ↗ unicode symbol][11]

# Donate

If you found kangae helpful in creating your own microblog website, please consider supporting me by
buying me a coffee :coffee:

<a href='https://www.buymeacoffee.com/ayushnix' target='_blank' rel="noopener"><img src='https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-blue.png' alt='buy ayushnix a coffee at buymeacoffee.com' border='0' height='36'></a>
<a href='https://ko-fi.com/O5O64SQ4C' target='_blank' rel="noopener"><img src='https://cdn.ko-fi.com/cdn/kofi1.png?v=2' alt='buy ayusnix a coffee at ko-fi.com' border='0' height='36'></a>

If you're in India, you can also use UPI for donations. My UPI address is `ayushnix@ybl`.

# Notes

I'm not really a web developer and I don't intend to be one either. However, I am interested in
learning HTML and CSS to create lightweight textual websites. You may be interested in reading [my
log about how I learned HTML and CSS][12]. However, this page is just an unorganized dump of my
thoughts and isn't a polished blog post. [Seirdy's blog post on creating textual websites][13] is
probably a better reference.

# TODO (maybe?)

- (responsive) image shortcodes
- run prettier on HTML and CSS before deployment
- twitter and mastodon shortcodes
- add optional support for cross posting and commenting on mastodon without using JS
- add optional support for [giscus][9] and [loading mastodon comments][10]
- add shortcode for asciinema
- add shortcode for blockquote and citation
- pagination

[1]: https://kangae.ayushnix.com/
[2]: https://www.getzola.org/
[3]: https://zunzuncito.oriole.systems/
[4]: https://microblog.ayushnix.com
[5]: LICENSE
[6]: https://www.getzola.org/documentation/getting-started/installation/
[7]: config.toml
[8]: https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae/issues/new
[9]: https://giscus.app/
[10]: https://carlschwan.eu/2020/12/29/adding-comments-to-your-static-blog-with-mastodon/
[11]: https://github.com/ayushnix/kangae/blob/master/static/css/style-external-links.css
[12]: https://wiki.ayushnix.com/frontend/creating-a-website/
[13]: https://seirdy.one/2020/11/23/website-best-practices.html
